# Beaker Weekly Update (Nov 18, 2019)

Beaker is progressing quickly towards version 0.9, which we're calling Beaker Next.

[Weekly dev diary videos can be found here.](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLBND3AXbdG41mp1VbNL6HF_lE3lBeb6wf)

## This Week (Dev Diary #4)

**This week's dev diary video: TODO INSERT LINK HERE**

This week we worked on the following items:

 1. Onboarding flow
 2. File KV metadata APIs
 3. .Goto files
 4. Overall UX

### Onboarding

New users are now taken through a dedicated modal which guides them through a user profile setup and then explains how Beaker and The Grid work.

### File KV Metadata APIs

The Hyperdrive APIs now have the full set of tools needed to read & write file metadata.

 - `stat()` includes the metadata values in the output under the `.metadata` key.
 - `writeFile()` and `createWriteStream()` now accept metadata values along with the content of the files.
 - `updateMetdata()` and `deleteMetadata()` can be used to modify the KVs of an existing file without modifying the content.

We introduced a convention for KV encoding. By default, Beaker treats metadata values as utf8 encoded. However, if a metadata key starts with the `bin:` prefix, it will be treated as a binary value and returned as an `ArrayBuffer`.

### .Goto Files

The `.goto` file is a new filetype which behaves as a "jump link." You can think of it as the file version of an `<a>` tag. When double-clicked in Beaker's explorer, beaker will navigate to the .goto's href.

Each `.goto` file has two standard metadata attributes:

 - `"href"` the target URL of the .goto file.
 - `"title"` a user-friendly title for the .goto target.

The actual content of a `.goto` file is unspecified and can be anything, including text or an image buffer. It's currently recommended to leave `.goto` files emtpy.

.Goto files differ from symlinks and mounts as they possess no protocol-level properties. They are simply files with an expected set of metadata attributes. Unlike a symlink, a .goto is not constrained to hyperdrive targets, and so can link to http/s URLs.

### Overall UX

There have been multiple UI updates to the desktop, explorer, and browser window.

The desktop now includes hard-coded shortcut bars on the left and right. The left bar provides a set of links to common destinations (the home drive, the library folder, settings, etc). The right bar provides shortcuts to create new hyperdrives.

The explorer has received multiple UI improvements and added support for .goto files.

The browser window has merged the "user menu" and the "browser menu" to reduce visual clutter. It also replaced the "bookmark" button with a "link" button which is used to create .goto files. This was done to increase it's utility: the default save location of the .goto file is the private `/library/bookmarks`, the user can choose to save in other locations, including the public drive's `/feed` folder. This makes "sharing a link" via .gotos extremely easy.