# Beaker Weekly Update (Nov 26, 2019)

Beaker is progressing quickly towards version 0.9, which we're calling Beaker Next.

[Weekly dev diary videos can be found here.](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLBND3AXbdG41mp1VbNL6HF_lE3lBeb6wf)

## This Week (Dev Diary #5)

**This week's dev diary video: https://youtu.be/iO3k4d9P3Us**

This week we worked on the following items:

 1. Share button and the URL bar
 2. Drag & drop
 3. The tab-switcher

### Share button and the URL bar

The Hyperdrive filesystem makes heavy use of "mounts" which are a way to link one drive into another as a subfolder. This means that the same content can have multiple URLs.

For example, every new Beaker user has two drives created for them:

 - The home drive (private)
 - The profile drive (public)
 
And the "profile drive" is mounted to the home drive at "/profile":

```
/           (home drive)
/profile -> (profile drive)
```

Because the home drive is private, you never want to share it. If you're looking at the profile drive and you want to share it, you want to share the profile drive's URL, not its mounted path on the home drive.

To solve this we did two things:

 1. We added a share button on the right of the URL bar which always gives you the URL for the current drive (not its mounted location) and which stops you from sharing a private drive's URL.
 2. We modified the URL bar to only include the path segment (which includes the pathname, query segment, and hash segment).

Changing the URL bar is a little controversial, so let me explain some details:

 - You can always see the hostname of your location by looking to the left of the URL bar (the "certificate control"). You can pretty easily tell where you are. For instance, if you're looking at this page, the "certificate control" would say `github.com` and the URL input would say `/project-updates/beaker-browser/2019-11-26.md`.
 - If you input a full URL into the URL bar, it will work as usual.
 - If you input a path into the URL bar (say `/foo`) it'll go to that path on the current host. This is actually pretty handy, especially when you're using your hyperdrive filesystem.
 - You can always use the share button to quickly grab the full URL of your current location.
 
This is a pretty controversial change and we know people may have some reservations. Give it a try when the beta comes out and let us know if you think it's problematic.

### Drag & drop

The files explorer now has the ability to drag-select files *and* drag-and-drop to copy or move files.

### The tab-switcher

Ctrl+Tab now gives you an interface that's like an OS-native Alt+Tab interface. We want Beaker to be an intuitive environment where you can do basically anything you normally do on computers, and we think this is a good step in that direction!
