# 2019-11-27

I'm currently in the process of breaking decentstack apart into smaller reusable modules.
The idea is that it should make it easier to maintain and adopt in part or whole.

Earlier this day [exchange-protocol@4.0.0](https://github.com/decentstack/exchange-protocol) was released which is the 4th iteration of the RPC hypercore-extension that I originally contributed to multifeed.

It's the first of three planned standalone modules.
The other two upcoming parts that we're gonna start on working next is:

**ReplicationManager**

There's a replication manager inside hypercore - the one most of you are relying on. But each feed.replicate() call instantiates a new instance.
This decentstack replication manger is built to effectively replicate many feeds to many peers on a single instance.

This is the next logical code to export form decentstack, with a new feature that has become unblocked with kappa-core@v5 - [active feed swapping](https://github.com/decentstack/decentstack/issues/9)

**MiddlewareInterface**

I've been given alot less feedback than I had originally expected on trying to design an universal easy-to-use control-interface.

So the plan is to decouple the middleware interface from the replication manager, leaving replication control as an open end in the form of two big dials labeled `share` and `accept` in the replication manager.

I'd love to give it another go as soon as i find someone willing to collaborate on the topic. But interface-design is put on hold for now.

